Failed Expectations.

December 2020

By Mikala Butler

*"Expectation is the root of all heartache." - William Shakespeare*

It's early on a Sunday morning, the year is 2003 and my mom turned the
corner to the kitchen to see her husband and two little brunette girls
cooking up breakfast. The breakfast they created was delicious and
beautifully spread, there were cards and gifts set up and a bouquet of
red roses on my mother's place-setting. The sun was shining in the
Arizona sky and my mom got to spend a relaxing day with the family. It
was her ideal mother's day. However, as I laid down in my bed that
night, my eight year old brain was unsatisfied, disappointed in fact.
All the plans I had made, the commercials and billboards I had seen
about how mother's day was "supposed" to be didn't happen. My mother
came and tucked me in, thanking me for a "beautiful mother's day" and I
began to cry, I told her how we were supposed to go have breakfast at
the zoo and see an animal show, I told her it was supposed to be just
like the commercial. She laughed and told me that sounded fun, but that
she didn't need that, her time with her family was all that she needed.
Once she kissed my head and left my room, I couldn't help but still feel
unsatisfied that my expectations weren't met, even though it wasn't even
"my" day.

Looking back at this early experience, I realize that this was one of
the first occasions where I was so utterly and completely unsatisfied
and disappointed that my expectations weren't met. The fact that I had
seen and believed, that a completely over-dramatized commercial of a
family at the Tucson Zoo having an exciting breakfast while monkeys and
lemurs flew around their table would be - one, truly how that breakfast
was - and two, what my mom wanted for mother's day was - bonkers. But as
I think about this, isn't this how we are today?

Now the year is 2005, I am a little older and living in a culd-a-sac
right next door to my best friend, Triston. Triston was sweet, kind and
all around a little nerd like me. We would play in a dirt lot next to my
house almost everyday after school and tell eachother all our deepest
darkest secrets - like I knew he thought that Lindsay Lohan was "the
prettiest girl" and he knew I was completely obsessed with dogs to the
point where my celebrity crush was "Max" from *The Goofy Movie*. We
would stay up super late just cause we didn't want to leave one another
and even once tried talking my dad into letting us have a sleepover
\[which he insisted we don't have, even though he knew it was out of
childish innocence.\] Halloween was also the best with Triston, because
we always planned our costumes and looked way better than all the other
kids in the neighborhood. There was also, one time when we threw his dog
a birthday party, tore open a stuffed animal and put dog treats inside
saying it was his "pinata." The list of stories goes on, but my point is
that Triston was probably one of the best friends I could have ever
had - actually I know he was and it has always been hard for me to feel
truly comfortable with a friend, even to this day, so this was huge.

Eventually the ominous day came, a moving truck pulled in and my mom
brought the fishbowl out to the car - we were moving, not just to a new
neighborhood though, out of state, to Colorado. I was upset, beyond
upset, truly I thought it was completely ridiculous that we had to move.
I remember Triston bringing me a gift and the sweetest letter a 9 year
old could write. As we both held back tears we said goodbye and as we
drove away he ran after the moving truck while sobbing and waving. I
thought to myself "this is the worst feeling ever." My expectations of
living in harmony forever, with my best friend there whenever I needed
him, was gone in an instant.

Friendship was hard to make when I first moved to Colorado, I despised
any idea of my mom trying to set me up with on playdates or put me in
some swim class to "make new friends" \[yes I was a stubborn child, as I
still am a stubborn adult.\] And yes, eventually I made friends, but at
that age, leaving my best friend, that was the most heartbreak I had
ever felt - losing someone in an instant who meant so much to me.

I remember at age 15, I had a cringeworthy crush on a boy in my church
group, I thought he was "funny" and "sarcastic" \[everything any 15 year
old wants\], I had seen all these 80's rom-coms with my mom and dreamt
about how one day a boy would hold a boombox outside of my window or how
I would ride away with the "uncool" guy on his John Deere lawn mower. We
began dating after my parents "somewhat" approval and it was casual. We
held hands at school football games, hung out at the park with our
friends.. It wasn't until I began hearing about what his friends told me
he was saying behind my back, things like - "I'm her dildo" and "she
totally gave me a blowjob" - is when I began to feel confused. \[Side
note: you should know that I was homeschooled my whole life and very
sheltered. Yes, I did mention I watched those 80's rom-coms, but my mom
made me look away from any "sexual" scenes.\] At that age I didn't know
what words like "dildo" or "blowjob" meant and once I learned about
them, I felt completely dirty. How could he lie to his friends about
such a thing? This wasn't the type of girl I was nor wanted to be
portrayed as. After this happened, he snuck out of his house one night
and called to have me let him into my house. I thought it was cute, very
movie-esc. I told him we could watch a movie and cuddle, so we did. It
was all peachy until he tried forcing me into giving him a blowjob and I
told him no. He got upset and left. We eventually broke up and he began
telling all his friends that I was a "slut" and that we broke up because
"I had cheated on him" \[yeah, I know, teenagers suck\]. This hurt more
than the breakup itself, this was when I realized that my expectations
for "dating" and what I thought was "love" (at the time) were completely
torn apart, at such a young age I thought "why even try at love." If
that was how a guy was going to treat me, I didn't want it - yet I did.
Deep down I had always dreamt of my "prince charming," as all young
girls do, but because of the lies and the hurt I had felt, I would
settle for less than what I should have from then on.

Now, you may think that is over-dramatic, that I "lost all hope in love"
because of some lies a 15 year old said about me, but think about it -
psychologically that would mess anyone up at that age. \[bullying does
exist both in and outside of relationships, but that's another
conversation for another day.\]

It is now June of 2017, I am at a hospital waiting anxiously for my
mother who is in a 6 hour surgery to fix something that shouldn't have
happened. A little backstory: my mom is a young mom, had me when she was
only about 20 years old, she had a bad past, but she is a fighter, the
strongest woman I know. In 2012, the doctors began to see abnormalities
in her heart. She was diagnosed with a left ventricle blockage to her
heart and then was later on diagnosed with cardiomyopathy on top of
that. If you are unfamiliar with what that is - it is a disease of the
heart muscle that makes it harder for your heart to pump blood to the
rest of your body. Cardiomyopathy can lead to heart failure. The doctor
had said that if she went on in the state that she was, she might only
get to live till about 60 years old if she was lucky. So, they decided
the best route to help prevent that outcome is that she get a pacemaker,
which she did get about in April of 2012, four years before the surgery
in which I am currently talking about. They were doing this surgery,
because the batteries need to be replaced every five years. This surgery
was supposed to be a run of the mill, normal surgery, but after a week
in recovery, we realized her wound spot was not healing and oozing green
liquid. She also was in constant pain. After going back in to the
doctors, they realized she had "somehow" got an infection that was now
climbing up her leads which connected her pacemaker to her main
arteries. The doctor said they would have to do emergency surgery to
remove them, but there was an 85% chance of death due to the
possibilities of leads tearing her arteries, thus resulting in a
bleed-out or if she decided against the surgery, she would die from
infection. Which brings us to June 2017 - hospital - me - waiting. This
was one of the hardest days of my life, all I could think about was
"what if she dies?" and "I have to look strong for my younger sisters
and my dad." But waiting in that cold, white, uncomfortable hospital
waiting room, with friends who tried to distract us from the situation,
was not helpful. Praise God, she did make it out of her surgery, but
that was only the start to a horrid healing process. It was hard hearing
her scream while they cleaned out the deep whole that was left in her
chest, this went on for the next few months. \[Modern medicine does not
mean there still aren't truly gruesome things that are done for the
health of people.\]

Here in this situation, I realized I had grown up with my mom at the
forefront of my life, I loved her and looked up to her. I also knew
about these health issues and had been to countless doctors and hospital
visits with her, but maybe I was in denial. I had been in denial to save
my own emotions from getting hurt from the thought of how serious the
state of her health actually was. I felt as though my "expectation" of
life with my mom was supposed to be like the life of who she was when I
was growing up, but in actuality that was gone. This would forever
change my mom and it was completely out of her control. This saddened me
most of all.

Fast forward to 2018, I am now graduating University. I was ecstatic,
all my hard work had paid off. I was going to get a job and have my own
money and freedom and the world basically at my fingertips, no one could
stop me. I had my "future" laid out in my head - Move out of my parents
house, get a dog, work a "real" job at a cool outdoorsy type of magazine
or newspaper and eventually find a good guy and get married. This was my
rough draft of my "ideal" future. After graduating I didn't get the job
at 5280 Magazine and I for sure didn't have enough money to live on my
own, and I couldn't get a dog because my parent's landlord didn't allow
pets. Due to my disappointment from my failed expectations, I decided to
take a sorta "year off." I took a low key nanny job and stayed at my
parents house. It wasn't my first choice, but it wasn't terrible. I was
enjoying the slowed down life-style, but there was always something
itching me, I always felt unsatisfied with my current state, then I
started a serious relationship with my now husband Daniel.

Daniel was the best and when I say the best I mean, better than anyone I
had ever been with. He was responsible, adventurous, mature, handsome
and lighthearted, most of all he respected me and loved me for me. This
relationship was the best part of my life at this point in time,
everything I had dreamt up, he did. He took me on adventures, trips and
treated me like a Colorado princess. Once we started moving in the
direction of getting engaged, I decided that I should get a higher
paying job, because I had still never lived on my own and I wanted that
experience before marriage, \[this was now a compromised goal I had
subconsciously made.\] So, I decided to apply for a police department
that I had interned for as a student, I applied to an officer position.
\[Now, you may realize that this is a way different route than my
previous ambitions and you are right, it was not my first choice, but I
knew they'd liked me and I liked them and because of that I\'d hopefully
get the job.\] Which I did. I got the job and started that August. I was
excited, but more for the fact that I\'d have more money and that got me
closer to one of my goals - moving out before marriage.

I was now working a "real" job and making somewhat enough money to move
out. I began making plans with a friend to become roommates and it fell
through. I then attempted another friend and they had just found a
roommate. I texted friend after friend and after no serious responses, I
became desperate and began looking on group chats of people who needed a
roommate and quickly gave up because I was so upset. Yet again, my
expectations for a fun "planning party" with a friend about moving out
was squashed. A few months went by and I got a text from a close
childhood friend to move out together and become roommates. I was hyped,
not only had I basically given up on that idea and was pleasantly
surprised, but the place she sent me was beautiful. We began planning
how our place would look and she said she wouldn't mind if I got a dog,
it was exciting and everything I wanted - until one day she wrote me
saying that she actually wouldn't be sticking with that plan and
extending her lease at her current place. I was sore outta luck.

This season of my life wasn't horrible, but I still felt stagnant, bored
and overall upset that nothing ever came to fruition. Again,
expectations weren't met.

Before we get into my current state of life, I want to be clear that
yes, many of these issues can be considered "first world problems,"
which I plead guilty of. Yes, I had many failed expectations of how my
life was "supposed" to be or how it "should've" played out - which we
have detected most of this stems from the early subjection to 80's
Rom-coms, emotionally artistic independent films and hopeless hippie
love songs (aka the Beatles). Maybe this could also stem from the fact
that I just believed the world and people for that matter, were way
better than they actually are. However, I did have some fulfilled
expectations on the way as well as lovely memories with some good people
\[Remember, the sole purpose of this article is to highlight some of the
negative and "failed expectations" of my life thus far.\]

Finally, it is now 2020, the year of my wedding, the year of marriage,
the year of memories, the year of getting a dog, the year of finally
moving out and the year of beginning this new long anticipated chapter
of life. I was excited to have a beautiful day with friends and family
to witness me marry my best friend, to drink, eat and be merry and to
then have a beautiful place to call our own. It was all coming together.

It was February, one day after work, my parents were very upset and I
couldn't understand why, but they called me home from hanging out with
Daniel and I rushed home thinking something was seriously wrong. Once
home, they told me how I needed to be careful of this new thing called
CoronaVirus. I was very aware of it and brushed it off like they were
overreacting, \[to be honest I didn't believe this virus was actually
going to become what it has become.\] I decided to leave my house that
night and go back to Daniels after thinking more deeply about it a
little more. If it was real, I definitely didn't want to possibly bring
it home from work to my mom and get her sick with all her underlying
health issues. So I packed a duffel bag of some clothes and left, but in
the back of my mind, it was still "only for the night." Eventually my
parents said it would be better not to come home for the next few weeks
for that reason, they didn't wanna risk my mom getting sick. These weeks
turned into months, thus I was stuck living at Daniels bachelor pad with
his roommate I hadn't spent too much time around. This was hard at
first - learning to live with two guys, not having my own "space" or my
own "things." I also began learning that not all personalities meshed
well - but it quickly became even harder, because the night I had left
my house I wasn't thinking "this would be my last night in my room, in
my bed, and with my family." I was thrown into a huge change, that
seemed exciting at first, cause yes, I did get what I wanted - I was
moved out, and on top of that I got to be with the person I loved, all
the time - but it was not at all how I expected it, there was nothing of
my own, no cute decorations or things that were "me", and I was living
out of a duffel bag of just a few clothes. I also realized I was coming
home to a house full of guys almost every other day and being an
introvert, this really made me anxiously want a space of my own, alone.

Along with that, my work life was getting difficult \[no I never did get
the "work from home" CoronaVirus break that most of my friends got.\] I
was working 6am to 5pm at a Covid testing center for 2 months and
eventually found out that three people I knew died from the virus. This
was hard to digest, it really was becoming real, but I tried really hard
to keep my cool \[aka buried all my feelings inside.\] Along with all
the Covid news, the everyday news seemed to get more and more
depressing, and when you work at a police department, every morning at
6am you begin your "briefing" with all of that depressing news the world
has to offer.This was all very mentally draining and many days I just
wanted to go home because I would find myself crying in the bathroom
stalls on my breaks or realizing I was being completely numb with my
coworkers when really I just couldn\'t fake it anymore. Horrible things
were going on in the world around us, and now all the news started
coming out about cops killing people of color which made me feel
disappointed in myself to be someone wearing a uniform. Sadly, I had no
time built up to take many days off, so I continued to go to work and do
my job. This depressive attitude I had at work, bled into my - now -
very day to day life - with Daniel which wasn't great. I realized I was
getting upset with him more frequently and when he was in a good mood
when I got home, I would squash it with my bad mood. One day he pointed
this out and I was pissed, I thought to myself "you don't know the half
of what I am going through." But he did, he just approached life
differently than I did. He told me he was "extra happy" when I arrived
home from work cause he was merely happy I was home and home safely. He
said he knew I probably had a bad day, so he would bury any of his
stresses before I got home, because to him, when we were together those
things didn't matter. This made me cry, I felt saddened that I had been
wasting my life away on being upset with things of this world that were
out of my control. I needed to stop focusing on the negative and realize
the many things I have been blessed with. It triggered a saying my mom
used to tell me growing up that I had let fall on the waste side and
that is - "You can't sit and sulk about the bad things that happen,
cause bad things will happen your whole life, you must focus on the
positive and then you will feel the positive and if you feel it, you'll
spread it to those who need it." Trust me, this is easier said than done
in a world so dark, especially in this year of 2020.

So here is my current positive - amidst the craziness and unfortunate
events of this year, I have tried hard to focus on the light around me
or in other words, the positive in the dark world we live in. I have
worked on being mindful, as well as educating myself on new topics. I
have been working hard to love people, my co-workers, my family, my
friends, Daniel and myself better.

I got eloped in June to Daniel, in the most beautiful mountain scene and
it topped any hopelessly romantic rom-com I have ever seen.

I wore a simple, but lovely \$50 dollar used dress and my mother sent me
a beautiful bouquet. Daniel's words were delicate and sweet. The air was
crisp and the wind was silent, nature always reminds me that it is okay
to step away from this world, because we need it. Us as humans need it
or else we will go insane.

\- Is marriage perfect? No. - Am I the woman I thought I would be in
marriage and as a wife? Definitely not. But I am happy that it isn't
easy and that I am not "perfect", cause I now appreciate that this life
isn't easy and realize that no one on earth will ever be perfect, (not
me or my husband), but this is how we grow and learn, this is what makes
our lives interesting.

Through this journey of "failed expectations," I have realized that I am
still feeling the same repercussions of my 8 year old self to this very
day. Sadly, now at age 24, I am realizing that it isn't as innocent as
an 8 year old not getting to give her mom the mother's day she deserves
\[or so I thought.\] Today I face real disappointment, real failed
expectations on a much larger scale. Some minor and some huge and some
life changing - but when the negativity of the world creeps in, I try to
remind myself of the positive or else the constant negativity shall
prevail.
